Add physical cluster replication tutorials and guides (#17915)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md

---
title: Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring
summary: Monitor and observe replication streams between a primary and standby cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include feature-phases/preview.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v23.2" %} You can monitor a physical cluster replication stream using:

> - [`SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER ... WITH REPLICATION STATUS`](#sql-shell) in the SQL shell.

Reviewer: Or just `SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTERS`

---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---------------
3  | standbyapplication | replicating        | none         | application        | postgresql://{user}:{password}@{hostname}:26257/?options=-ccluster%3Dsystem&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=redacted | 899090689449132033 | 2023-09-11 22:29:35.085548+00 | 2023-09-11 16:51:43.612846+00 |     NULL
(1 row)
~~~

### Responses

Field    | Response
---------+----------
`id` | The ID of the virtual cluster.
`name` | The name of the standby (destination) virtual cluster.
`data_state` | The state of the data on the virtual cluster. This can show one of the following: `initializing replication`, `ready`, `replicating`, `replication paused`, `replication pending cutover`, `replication cutting over`, `replication error`. Refer to [Data state](#data-state) for more detail on each response.

> `service_mode` | The service mode shows whether the virtual cluster is ready to accept SQL requests. This can show one of the following: `none`, `shared`.

Author: Are these all of the modes? And what does "shared" technically mean?

Author: I have added a sentence for `shared`. 

For `external`, do we want to include that here as a part of physical rep? If so, I'm not sure how that is defined?

`cutover_time` | The time at which the cutover will begin.

{% comment %}Add responses to include for SQL statement page{% endcomment %}

#### Data state

State      | Description
-----------+----------------
`initializing replication` | The replication job is completing the initial scan of data from the primary cluster before it starts replicating data in real time.
`ready` | The virtual cluster's data is ready for use.
`replicating` | The replication job has started and is replicating data.
`replication paused` | The replication job is paused due to an error or a manual request with `ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER ... PAUSE REPLICATION`.
`replication pending cutover` | The replication job is running and a cutover time has been set. Once the the replication reaches the cutover time, the will begin automatically.
`replication cutting over` | The job has started cutting over. The cutover time can no longer be changed. Once complete, the virtual cluster will be available for use with `ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER ... START SHARED SERVICE`.
`replication error` | An error has occurred. You can find more detail in the error message and the logs.

## DB Console

> You can access the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) for your standby cluster at `https://{your IP or hostname}:8080/`. The **Physical Replication** dashboard under **Metrics** on the left-hand navigation bar.

Reviewer: I had to get to this a different way. I had to go to Dashboards, and then select Physical Cluster Replication (not Replication) from the drop-down.

Author: Hmmmm, I think that is the same way as me... I have updated to make this clearer.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/ui-metrics-navigation.md %}

> The **Physical Replication** dashboard contains two graphs for monitoring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Physical ClusterReplication** dashboard contains two graphs for monitoring:
```
It's worth disambiguating the Replication dashboard, which is not related to this.

Author: I added a note for this.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### SST bytes

<img src="{{ 'images/v23.2/ui-sst-bytes.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console SST bytes graph showing results over the past hour" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The **SST Bytes** graph shows you the rate at which all [SST]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#ssts) bytes are sent to the [KV layer]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/storage-layer.md %}) by physical cluster replication jobs.

Hovering over the graph displays:

- The date and time.
- The number of SST bytes replicated in MiB.

## Prometheus

You can use Prometheus and Alertmanager to track and alert on physical cluster replication metrics. Refer to the [Monitor CockroachDB with Prometheus]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.md %}) tutorial for steps to set up Prometheus.

We recommend tracking the following metrics:

> - `replication.logical_bytes`: The logical bytes (the sum of all keys and values) ingested by all physical cluster replication jobs.

Author: Any further metrics we want to list here?

> - `replication.logical_bytes`: The logical bytes (the sum of all keys and values) ingested by all physical cluster replication jobs.

Author: Updated.

---
title: Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring
summary: Monitor and observe replication streams between a primary and standby cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include feature-phases/preview.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v23.2" %} You can monitor a physical cluster replication stream using:

- [`SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER ... WITH REPLICATION STATUS`](#sql-shell) in the SQL shell.
- The [Physical Replication dashboard](#db-console) on the DB Console.
- [Prometheus and Alertmanager](#prometheus) to track and alert on replication metrics.

{% comment %}Add data verification on standby here?{% endcomment %}

> {% comment %}This page describes the available monitoring for physical cluster replication, for information on how replication works, refer to:{% endcomment %}

Author: I removed for now. Going to have a session of adding in lots of cross-linking in the next PR

## DB Console

> You can access the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) for your standby cluster at `https://{your IP or hostname}:8080/`. Select the **Metrics** page from the left-hand navigation bar, and then **Physical Cluster Replication** from the **Dashboard** dropdown. The user that accesses the DB Console must have `admin` privileges to view this dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) for your standby cluster at `https://{your IP or hostname}:8080/`. Select the **Metrics** page from the left-hand navigation bar, and then select **Physical Cluster Replication** from the **Dashboard** dropdown. The user that accesses the DB Console must have `admin` privileges to view this dashboard.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/ui-metrics-navigation.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> The **Physical Cluster Replication** dashboard only tracks metrics related to physical cluster replication jobs. This is different to the [**Replication** dashboard]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}), which tracks metrics related to how data is replicated across the cluster, e.g., range status, replicas per store, and replica quiescence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Physical Cluster Replication** dashboard tracks metrics related to physical cluster replication jobs. This is distinct from the [**Replication** dashboard]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}), which tracks metrics related to how data is replicated across the cluster, e.g., range status, replicas per store, and replica quiescence.
```

Author: Done!
